okay now here is the bamboo pole or one
of them after I've cut it down so I cut
them at the base you know I had there's
an area that has a whole stretch of
bamboo back there at the far edge of my
yard and it's relatively well contained
you know which is important because
bamboo can be invasive and can get out
but fortunately this has a double bamboo
barrier around at the roots so we're
keeping an eye on that but in the
meantime you know some of the bamboo
stalks who you know will go dead and by
stripping by cutting them down at the
base just with using a reciprocating saw
like an electric saws all we just cut
that out and then as you saw a moment to
go I use an axe you know just to chop
down the sides to get rid of the shoots
or branches that are coming out on each
side but here what I'm going to show is
you know and I cut this one about six
feet up and here I left a few of these
where they branch off and just use the
my little hatchet to chop them you know
here and here and here and the reason
why I left this Pete these little twigs
or these little the base of these
branches shooting out on this particular
spot is because now I can use this as a
support system so i'll show you what i
mean i have out here this spot where i'm
growing gourds and these gourds are
growing you really can barely see it
here but they're growing on this ramesh
which is reinforcing mesh that's used
for laying down concrete this is like a
six gauge mesh and it is 10 feet across
and five feet tall and this is six gauge
when the hole is six inches square so
you can reach through and this is
starting to lean it's been leaning
because of the weight of the
words the vines that are growing on it
so what I'm going to do is use my bamboo
stakes which again I'm kind of recycling
from right here on my own property where
I have bamboo growing I'm going to use
these bamboo stakes like so i'll show
you here if you can see through this
through all of these vines so i'm going
to use this scoop those little branches
that I was just showing you scooping
those underneath the wire mesh so that
now it's hooked in come around here so
you can see how okay I just come around
to the other side you can see how I hook
to those little branches right
underneath the wire mesh here against
the metal so that that now is going to
support this and I'm coming back around
again and then I'll just give this
another kick here so that kind of move
that forward so that now that fence is
you know that fence or mesh is well
supported which is important because we
have a hurricane actually coming through
here in a couple of days time and you
can see I did the same with a couple of
other bamboo poles here the same type of
thing so again just a really easy way to
use bamboo if you are fortunate enough
to have some around that's not taking
over but that is you know a resource for
you also sometimes you'll be able to
spot bamboo if you get if you're
accustomed to what it looks like and a
lot of places if you if you see bamboo
there may em that's out of control or
that's in a public place you may
actually be able to go in
and cut some of the dead ones down for
yourself in fact the people who have
bamboo growing if it's out of control
they may actually be happy to have you
come and cut and take some of it away
for free because it's due may be doing
them a favor and in the meantime bamboo
poles or steaks can be very very helpful
before I had the rematch I used to use a
lot of them here for staking up my
tomato plants these tomato plants the
fence here is about seven feet tall
actually and the tomato plants you can
see some of them are growing a foot or
two above that so so I would use the
bamboo poles you know coming straight up
a bunch of them to you know to stake up
the tomatoes and they were terrific for
that as well okay so that is it about
using bamboo poles for your gardening
happy gardening